THE COMING OF THE MARTIANS No one would have believed in the last years of the nineteenth century that this world was being watched by Martians and yet as mortal as his own; that as men busied themselves about their various concerns they were scrutinised and studied, perhaps almost as narrowly as a man with a microscope might scrutinise the transient creatures that swarm and multiply in a drop of water.
And we men, the creatures who inhabit this earth, must be to them at least as alien and Humans are as lowly to Martians as are the monkeys to humans. The intellectual side of man already admits that life is an incessant struggle for existence, and it would seem that this too is the belief of the minds upon Mars.  that, generation after generation, creeps upon them. 
Yet so vain is man, and so blinded by his vanity, that no writer, up to the very end of the nineteenth century, ex- pressed any idea that intelligent life might have developed there far, or indeed at all, beyond its earthly level. Nor was it generally understood that since Mars is older than our earth
The secular cooling that must someday overtake our planet has already gone far indeed with our neighbour.Which hass sparked the invasion. Its physical condition is still largely a mystery, but we know now that even in its equatorial region the midday temperature barely approaches that of our coldest winter. The Mars has become too cool to support life.
And before we judge martians too harshly we must remember what ruthless and utter destruction our own species has wrought, not only upon animals, such as the vanished bison and the dodo, but upon its inferior races. The Tasmanians were entirely swept out of existence by humans, in the space of fifty years.that is how martians see humans.
During the opposition of 1894 a strange light was seen on the surface of the Mars, first at the Lick Observatory, then by Perrotin of Nice, and then by other observers. English readers heard of it first in the issue of NATURE dated August 2.  
Even the daily papers woke up to the disturbances at last, and popular notes appeared here, there, and everywhere concerning the volcanoes upon Mars. The seriocomic periodical PUNCH, I remember, made a happy use of it in the political cartoon. And, all unsuspected, those lights were the missiles the Martians had fired at us drew earthward.
I might not have heard of the eruption at all had I not met Ogilvy,who is the well-known astronomer, at Ottershaw. He was immensely excited at the news, and in the excess of his feelings invited me up to take a turn with him that night in a scrutiny of the red planet.
Ogilvy was showing me mars from his telescope. Ogilvy moved about, invisible but audible. Looking through the telescope, one saw a circle of deep blue and the little round planet swimming in the field. It seemed such a little thing, so bright and small and still, faintly marked with transverse stripes, and slightly flattened from the perfect round. But so little it was, so silvery warm—a pin’s-head of light.
He was full of speculation that night about the condition of Mars, and scoffed at the vulgar idea of its having in- habitants who were signalling us. His idea was that meteorites were falling upon the planet to cause the explosion, or that a huge volcanic explosion was in progress.But they were not meteorites.
He was full of speculation that night about the condition of Mars, and scoffed at the vulgar idea of its having in- habitants who were signalling us. His idea was that meteorites might be falling in a heavy shower upon the planet, or that a huge volcanic explosion was in progress. He pointed out to me it was highly unlikely that the  aliens were causing these explosions on Mars.
People in these latter times scarcely realise the abundance and enterprise of our nineteenth century papers. For my own part, I was much occupied in learning to ride the bicycle, and busy upon a series of papers discussing the probable developments of moral ideas as civilisation progressed.
But very early in the morning poor Ogilvy, who had seen the shooting star and who was persuaded that a meteorite lay somewhere on the common between Horsell, Ottershaw, and Woking, rose early with the idea of finding it. Find it he did, soon after dawn, and not far from the sand pits. Ogilvy found a cylinder when looking for meteor. The uncovered part had the appearance of a huge cylinder, caked over stones and its outline softened by a thick scaly dun-coloured incrustation.
Henderson went into the railway station, and he was telegraphing the news to London. The newspaper articles had prepared men’s minds for the reception of the idea. By eight o’clock a number of boys and unemployed men had already started for the common to see the ‘dead men from Mars.’ That was the form the story took.
By eight o’clock a number of boys and unemployed men had already started for the common to see the ‘dead men from Mars.’ That was the form the story took. I heard of it first from my newspaper boy about a quarter to nine when I went out to get my DAILY CHRONICLE. I was naturally startled, and after reading the article I headed to sand pit.
There were four or five boys sitting on the edge of the Pit, with their feet dangling, and amusing themselves— until I stopped them, they were throwing stones at the cylinder. After I had spoken to them about it, they began playing at ‘touch’ in and out of the group of bystanders.
At the first glance it was really no more exciting than an overturned carriage or a tree blown across the road. Not so much so, indeed. cylinder looked like a rusty gas float. It required a certain amount of scientific education to perceive that the grey scale of the cylinder was made of no common metal, that the yellowish-white metal that gleamed in the crack between the lid and the cylinder had an unfamiliar hue.
I went on to the crowd. There were really, I should think, two or three hundred people elbowing and jostling one an- other, the one or two ladies there being by no means the least active. ‘the man who came , The man has fallen in the pit!’ cried some one.
The martians had a big greyish rounded bulk, they were of the size of a bear, was rising slowly and painfully out of the cylinder. As it bulged up and caught the light, it glistened like wet leather. 
Beyond the pit, men were carrying white flag. As the green smoke arose, their faces flashed out pallid green, and faded again as it vanished. Forthwith flashes of actual flame, a bright glare leaping from one to another, sprang from the scattered group of men. It was as if some invisible jet impinged upon them and flashed the man carrying white flag into white flame.
THE HEAT RAY was the main weapon of Martians. It was sweeping round swiftly and steadily, this flaming death, this invisible, inevitable sword of heat.
It is still a matter of wonder, experts did not know how heat ray works. One theory is that it uses a mirror to concentrate  the heat,in some way they are able to generate an intense heat in a chamber of practically absolute non-conductivity. This intense heat they project in a parallel beam against any object they choose, by means of a polished parabolic mirror of unknown composition, much as the parabolic mirror of a lighthouse projects a beam of light.
I felt foolish and angry. I tried and found I did not tell them what I had seen. They laughed again at my broken sentences.‘You’ll hear more yet,’ I said, and went on to my home after the attack on commoms .I met my wife at the doorway, so haggard was I.
So some respectable dodo in the Mauritius might have lorded it in his nest, and discussed the arrival of that shipful of pitiless sailors in want of animal food. ‘We will peck them to death tomorrow, my dear.’ I was comparing myself with a dodo.
Even within the five-mile circle the great majority of people were inert. I have already described the behaviour of the men and women to whom I spoke.Even after the first attack the business carried on as usual. All over the district people were dining and supping; working men were gardening after the labours of the day, children were being put to bed, young people were wandering through the lanes love-making, students sat over their books. 
Ogilvy followed the meteor.He found the Martian cylinder. The uncovered part had the appearance of a huge cylinder, caked over and its outline softened by a thick scaly dun-coloured incrustation.Ogilvy informed the henderson.
It was known that the secular cooling that must someday overtake our planet has already gone far indeed with our neighbour. Mars physical condition is still largely a mystery, but we know now that even in its equatorial region the midday temperature barely approaches that of our coldest winter.  That last stage of exhaustion, which to us is still incredibly remote, has become a present-day problem for the inhabitants of Mars.Martians left their home planet and invaded earth beacuse Mars began to cool off.
The military authorities were certainly alive to the seriousness of the business. About eleven, the next morning’s papers were able to say, a squadron of hussars, two Maxims, and about four hundred men of the Cardigan regiment started from Aldershot. The Cardigan Regiment was dispached to form a cordon around horsell Commom.
But very early in the morning poor Ogilvy, who had seen the shooting star and who was persuaded that a meteorite was laying somewhere on the Horsell commom, Ottershaw, and Woking, rose early with the idea of finding it. Find it he did, soon after dawn, and not far from the sand pits. 
THE WORK OF Fourteen DAYS, I was trapped with the curate for fifteen days. For some time I stood tottering on the mound regardless of my safety. Within that noisome den from which I had emerged I had thought with a narrow intensity only of our immediate security.  
Forthwith flashes of actual flame, a bright glare leaping from one to another, sprang from the scattered group of men. It was as if some invisible jet impinged upon them and flashed into white flame. It was as if the group of men was momentarily turned to fire.
A douche of spray blinded my brother for a moment. When his eyes were clear again he saw the monster had passed and was rushing landward. Big iron upperworks rose out of this headlong structure, and from that twin funnels projected and spat a smoking blast shot with fire. It was the torpedo ram, THUNDER CHILD came to the rescue of the threatened shipping.
My brother, very luckily for him as it chanced, preferred to push on at once to the coast rather than wait for food, although all three of them were very hungry. By mid- day they passed through Tillingham, which seemed to be quite silent and deserted, save for a few furtive plunderers hunting for food.
As it passed it set up an exultant deafening howl that drowned the thunder—‘Aloo! Aloo!’—and in another minute it was with its companion, half a mile away, stooping over something in the field.one by one a total of ten cylinders were fired at the Earth from Mars.
All the shipping in the world seemed going Londonward in those days. But of all this I have no memory. I drifted—a demented man. I found myself in a house of kindly people, who had found me on the third day wandering, weeping, and raving through the streets, I was found  in St. John’s Wood. They have told me since that I was singing about ‘The Last Man Left Alive! Hurrah! The Last Man Left Alive!’.
I began to comfort her and myself by repeating all that Ogilvy had told me of the impossibility of the Martians establishing themselves on the earth. In particular I laid stress on the gravitational difficulty. On the surface of the earth gravity is three times as compared to Mars. 
The storm did burst upon us six years ago. As Mars approached opposition, Lavelle of Java set the wires of the astronomical exchange palpitating with the amazing intelligence of a huge outbreak of incandescent gas upon the planet.
Suddenly there was a flash of light, and a quantity of luminous greenish smoke was coming out of the pit, which drove up, one after the other, straight into the still air. 
A mighty space it was, with gigantic machines here and there within it, huge mounds of material and strange shelter places. And scattered about it, some in their over- turned war-machines, some in the now rigid handling- machines, and a dozen of them stark and silent and laid in a row, were the Martians— DEAD!—Martians were slain by bacteria against which their systems were unprepared .
It was seen early in the morning, rushing over Winchester eastward, a line of flame high in the atmosphere. Hundreds must have seen it, and taken it for an ordinary falling star. Albin described it as leaving a greenish streak behind it that glowed for some seconds. Denning, our greatest authority on meteorites, stated that the height of its first appearance was about ninety or one hundred miles.
It was seen early in the morning, rushing over Winchester eastward, a line of flame high in the atmosphere. Hundreds must have seen it, and taken it for an ordinary falling star. Albin described it as leaving a greenish streak behind it that glowed for some seconds. Denning, our greatest authority on meteorites, first stated that the height of meteorites first appearance was about ninety miles. 
I put out my hand and felt the meat chopper hanging to the wall. In a flash I was after him. I was fierce with fear. Before he was halfway across the kitchen I had overtaken him. With one last touch of humanity I turned the blade back and struck the curate with the blunt end. He went headlong for- ward and lay stretched on the ground.
I saw a lad trundling off the barrow of apples. And then, within thirty yards of the pit, advancing from the direction of Horsell, I noted a group of men, the foremost of whom were waving a white flag.
My younger brother was in London when the Martians fell at Woking. He was a medical student working for an imminent examination, and he heard nothing of the arrival until Saturday morning.
After I parted from the artilleryman, I went down the hill, and by the High Street across the bridge to Fulham. The red weed was tumultuous at that time, and nearly choked the bridge roadway; but its fronds were already whitened in patches by the spreading disease that presently removed it so swiftly.
As the green flames lifted I could see the oily gleam of his integument and the brightness of his eyes. And suddenly I heard a yell, and saw a long tentacle was reaching for the little cage that hunched upon its back. Then something—something struggling violently—was lifted high against the sky, a black, vague enigma against the starlight; and as this black object came down again, I saw by the green brightness that it was a man. For an instant he was clearly visible.
Martians were eating the blood of the captured humans.
Near it in the field, I remember, were three faint points of light were visible in empty space, three telescopic stars infinitely remote, and all around it was the unfathomable darkness of empty space. You know how that blackness looks on a frosty starlight night. In a telescope it seems far profounder. And invisible to me because it was so remote and small, flying swiftly and steadily towards me across that incredible distance, drawing nearer every minute by so many thousands of miles
That night nearly forty people were laying under the starlight about the pit, charred and distorted beyond recognition, and all night long the common from Horsell to Maybury was deserted and brightly ablaze.
I did not succeed in getting a glimpse of the common, for even Horsell and Chobham church towers were in the hands of the military authorities. The soldiers I addressed didn’t know anything; the officers were mysterious as well as busy. I found people in the town quite secure again in the presence of the military, and I heard for the first time from Marshall, the tobacconist, that his son was among the dead on the common.
The red creeper was quite a transitory growth, and few people have seen it growing. For a time, however, the red weed grew with astonishing vigour and luxuriance. the red weed was spreading up the sides of the pit by the third or fourth day of our imprisonment, and its cactus - like branches formed a carmine fringe to the edges of our triangular window.
I was a lonely man, and they were very kind to me. I was a lonely man and a sad one, and they bore with me. I was with them four days after my recovery. All that time I felt a vague, a growing craving to look once more on whatever remained of the little life that seemed so happy and bright in my past.
That was the story I got from him, bit by bit. He grew calmer telling me and trying to make me see the things he had seen.The soldier had eaten no food since midday, he told me early in his narrative, and I found some mutton and bread in the pantry and brought it into the room. We lit no lamp for fear of attracting the Martians, and ever and again our hands would touch upon bread or meat.
Leatherhead is about twelve miles from Maybury Hill. The scent of hay was in the air through the lush meadows beyond Pyrford, and the hedges on either side were sweet and gay with multitudes of dog-roses. The heavy firing that had broken out while we were driving down Maybury Hill ceased as abruptly as it began, leaving the evening very peaceful and still. We got to Leatherhead without misadventure about nine o’clock, and the horse had an hour’s rest while I took supper with my cousins and commended my wife to their care.
For a time I believed that mankind had been swept out of existence, and that I stood there alone, the last man left alive ( actually i  was not last man). Hard by the top of Putney Hill I came upon another skeleton, with the arms dislocated and removed several yards from the rest of the body.
A number of people now, like my brother, had their faces eastward, and there were some desperate souls even going back towards London to get food. These were chiefly people from the northern suburbs, whose knowledge of the Black Smoke came by hearsay. He heard that about half the members of the government had gathered at Birmingham, and that enormous quantities of high explosives were being prepared to be used in automatic mines across the Midland counties.
After the end of  invasion, I believed that there is the possibility of another attack from the Martians. I do not think that nearly enough attention is being given to this aspect of the matter. At present the planet Mars is in conjunction, but with every return to opposition I, for one, anticipate a renewal of their adventure. In any case, we should be prepared. It seems to me that it should be possible to define the position of the gun from which the shots are discharged, to keep a sustained watch upon this part of the planet, and to anticipate the arrival of the next attack.
After eating we crept back to the scullery, and there I must have dozed again, for when presently I looked round I was alone. The thudding vibration continued with wearisome persistence. I whispered for the curate several times, and at last felt my way to the door of the kitchen. It was still day- light, and I perceived him across the room, lying against the triangular hole that looked out upon the Martians. His shoulders were hunched, so that his head was hidden from me. 
NI found myself in a house of kindly people, who had found me on the third day wandering, weeping, and raving through the streets of St. John’s Wood. They have told me since that I was singing ‘ The Last Man Left Alive! Hurrah! The Last Man Left Alive!’
After the glimpse I had of the Martians emerging from the cylinder in which they had come to the earth from their planet, a kind of fascination paralysed my actions. I remained standing knee-deep in the heather, staring at the mound that hid them. we were in a battleground of fear and curiosity.
Yet the next day there was nothing of this in the papers except a little note in the DAILY TELEGRAPH, and the world went in ignorance of one of the gravest dangers that ever threatened the human race. I might not have heard of the eruption at all had I not met Ogilvy, who was the well-known astronomer, at Ottershaw. He was immensely excited at the news, and in the excess of his feelings invited me up to take a turn with him that night in a scrutiny of the red planet.
But very early in the morning poor Ogilvy, who had seen the shooting star and who was persuaded that a meteorite was laying somewhere on the common between Horsell, Ottershaw, and Woking, rose early with the idea of finding it.
In the afternoon the appearance of the common had altered very much. The early editions of the evening papers of London has the headline : A MESSAGE RECEIVED FROM MARS, REMARKABLE STORY FROM WOKING and so forth. In addition, Ogilvy’s wire to the Astronomical Exchange had roused every observatory in the three kingdoms. 
The cylinder opens and inside is, a big greyish rounded bulk, the size, perhaps, of a bear, was rising slowly and painfully out of the cylinder. As it bulged up and caught the light, it glistened like wet leather. 
Forthwith flashes of actual flame, a bright glare leaping from one to another, sprang from the scattered group of men. It was as if some invisible jet impinged upon them and flashed into white flame. It was as if when the heat ray hit them each man were suddenly and momentarily turned to fire.
Mrs. Elphinstone — that was the name of the woman in white — would listen to no reasoning, and kept calling upon ‘George"; but her sister-in-law was astonishingly quiet and deliberate, and at last agreed to my brother’s suggestion. So, designing to cross the Great North Road, they went on towards Barnet, my brother leading the pony to save it as much as possible.
Yet the next day there was nothing of this in the papers except a little note in the DAILY TELEGRAPH, and the world went in ignorance of one of the gravest dangers that ever threatened the human race. I might not have heard of the eruption at all had I not met Ogilvy, the well-known astronomer, at Ottershaw. He was immensely excited at the news
Leatherhead is about twelve miles from Maybury Hill. The scent of hay was in the air through the lush meadows beyond Pyrford. The heavy firing that had broken out while we were driving down Maybury Hill ceased as abruptly as it began, leaving the evening very peaceful and still. We got to Leatherhead about nine o’clock, and the horse had an hour’s rest while I took supper with my cousins and commended my wife to their care.
I put out my hand and felt the meat chopper hanging to the wall. In a flash I was after him. I was fierce with fear. Before he was halfway across the kitchen I had overtaken him. With one last touch of humanity I turned the blade back and struck him with the blunt end of the cleaver. He did went headlong for- ward and lay stretched on the ground.
It was a long time before he could steady his nerves to answer my questions, and then he answered perplexingly and brokenly. boy was a driver in the artillery, and had only come into action about seven.
A big greyish rounded bulk, the size, perhaps, of a bear, was rising slowly and painfully out of the cylinder. As it bulged up and caught the light, it glistened like wet leather. Martians were catching humans and were eating human blood to stay alive.
THe thunder bird was alive still; the steering gear, it seems, was intact and her engines working. She headed straight for a second Martian, and was within a hundred yards of him when the heat ray came to bear. The Martian staggered with the violence of her explosion, and in another moment the flaming wreckage, still driving forward with the impetus of its pace, had struck him and crumpled him up like a thing of cardboard. A boiling tumult of steam hid everything again. ‘Two!,’ yelled the captain.The thunder child had taken out two Martians.
A mighty space it was, with gigantic machines here and there within it, huge mounds of material and strange shelter places. And scattered about it, some in their over- turned war-machines, some in the now rigid handling- machines, and a dozen of them stark and silent and laid in a row, were the Martians— DEAD!— Martians were slain by bacteria against which their systems were unprepared .
My younger brother was in London when the Martians fell at Woking. He was a medical student working for an imminent examination, and he heard nothing of the arrival until Saturday morning. The morning papers on Saturday contained, in addition to lengthy special articles on the planet Mars, on life in the planets, and so forth, a brief and vaguely worded telegram, all the more striking for its brevity.
But very early in the morning poor Ogilvy, who had seen the shooting star and who was persuaded that a meteorite was laying on the common between Horsell, Ottershaw, and Woking, rose early with the idea of finding it. Find it he did, soon after dawn, and not far from the sand pits. An enormous hole had been made by the impact of the projectile, and the sand and gravel had been flung violently in every direction over the heath, forming heaps visible a mile and a half away. The heather was on fire eastward, and a thin blue smoke rose against the dawn. 
Forthwith flashes of actual flame, a bright glare leaping from one to another, sprang from the scattered group of men. It was as if some invisible jet impinged upon them and flashed into white flame. It was as if the people waving white flag were suddenly and momentarily turned to fire.
The Martians invasion began six years ago from now. As Mars approached opposition, Lavelle of Java set the wires of the astronomical exchange palpitating with the amazing intelligence of a huge outbreak of incandescent gas upon the planet. It had occurred towards midnight of the twelfth; and the spectroscope, to which he had at once resorted, indicated a mass of flaming gas, chiefly hydrogen, moving with an enormous velocity towards this earth. 
Suddenly there was a flash of light, and a quantity of luminous green color smoke was coming out of the pit , which drove up, one after the other, straight into the still air. 
Middlesex must have seen the fall of meteorite , and, at most, have thought that another meteorite had descended on the horsell commom. No one seems to have troubled to look for the fallen mass that night.  
Henderson stood up with his spade in his hand. ‘What’s that?’ he said. He was deaf in one ear. Ogilvy told him that he thinks a man is inside. Henderson was a minute or so taking it in.
Ogilvy was equally unsuccessful with the potman who was just unlocking the doors of the public-house by Horsell Bridge. The fellow thought he was a lunatic at large and made an unsuccessful attempt to shut him into the taproom. That sobered him a little; and when he saw Henderson, the London journalist, in his garden, he called over the palings and made himself understood.
The Martian has big greyish rounded bulk, it was the size of a bear, was rising slowly and painfully out of the cylinder. As it bulged up and caught the light, it glistened like wet leather.
In the afternoon the appearance of the common had altered very much. The headline in the london newspaper is: A MESSAGE RECEIVED FROM MARS.
A bat flickered by and vanished. A distant tumult of shouting began and ceased. I looked again at the Martian, and he was now moving eastward along the riverbank, with a swift, rolling motion, 
Then I saw some cabmen and others had walked boldly into the sand pits, and heard the clatter of hoofs and the gride of wheels. I saw a lad trundling off the barrow of apples. And then, within thirty yards of the pit, advancing from the direction of Horsell, I noted a little black knot of men, the men were waving a white flag to Martians.
My wife at least did not find my experience incredible. When I saw how deadly white her face was, I ceased abruptly.‘They may come here,’ she said again and again. I pressed her to take wine, and tried to reassure her by telling that they move very slowly.
I began to comfort her and myself by repeating all that Ogilvy had told me of the impossibility of the Martians establishing themselves on the earth. In particular I laid stress on the gravitational difficulty.Ogilvy thought that Martians can not establish themselves on earth because on the surface of the earth gravity is three times than what it is on the surface of Mars.
Several officers from the Inkerman barracks had been on the common earlier in the day, and one, Major Eden, was reported to be missing. The colonel of the regiment came to the Chobham bridge and was busy questioning the crowd at midnight. The military authorities were certainly alive to the seriousness of the business. About eleven, the next morning’s papers were able to say, a squadron of hussars, two Maxims, and about four hundred men of the Cardigan regiment started from Aldershot.
‘But where are we to go?’ said my wife in terror.I thought perplexed. Then I remembered my wife cousins lived  at Leatherhead. ‘Leatherhead!’ I shouted above the sudden noise.
For my own part, after getting my wife to safety I was excited all day. Something very like the war fever that occasionally runs through a civilised community had got into my blood, and in my heart I was not so very sorry that I had to return to Maybury that night. I was even afraid that that last fusillade I had heard might mean the extermination of our invaders from Mars. I can best express my state of mind by saying that I wanted to be in at the death.
Hundreds of observers saw the flame that night and the night after about midnight, and again the night after; and so for ten nights, a flame each night. Total ten shots were fired from Mars . Why the shots ceased after the tenth no one on earth has attempted to explain. It may be the gases of the firing caused the Martians in- convenience.
My younger brother was in London when the Martians fell at Woking. He was a medical student working for an imminent examination, and he heard nothing of the arrival until Saturday morning. The morning papers on Saturday contained, in addition to lengthy special articles on the planet Mars, on life in the planets, and so forth, a brief and vaguely worded telegram, all the more striking for its brevity. 
A big greyish rounded bulk, the size, perhaps, of a bear, was rising out of the cylinder. As it bulged up and caught the light, it glistened like wet leather
It was early on the fifteenth day that I heard a curious, familiar sequence of sounds in the kitchen, and, listening, identified it as the snuffing and scratching of a dog. Going into the kitchen, I saw a dog’s nose peering in through a break among the ruddy fronds. This greatly surprised me.
 And speaking of the differences between the life on Mars and terrestrial life, I may allude here to the curious suggestions of the red weed. The red weed was all over the place when I went out.
After I had parted from the artilleryman, I went down the hill, and by the High Street across the bridge to Fulham. The red weed was nearly choking the bridge roadway; but its fronds were already whitened in patches by the spreading disease that presently removed it so swiftly. 
Here and there they were scattered, nearly fifty altogether, in that great gulf they had made, overtaken by a death that must have seemed to them as incomprehensible as any death could be. To me also at that time this death was incomprehensible. All I knew was that these things that had been alive and so terrible to men were dead. For a moment I believed that the destruction of Sennacherib had been repeated, that God had repented, that the Angel of Death had slain them in the night.
And scattered about it, some in their over- turned war-machines, some in the now rigid handling- machines, and a dozen of them stark and silent and laid in a row, were the Martians— DEAD!— finally Martians were slain by the bacteria against which their systems were not prepared; slain as the red weed was being slain; slain, after all man’s devices had failed, by the humblest things that God, in his wisdom, has put upon this earth.
At any rate, in all the bodies of the Martians were examined after the war, no bacteria except those already known as terrestrial species were found. That they did not bury any of their dead, and the reckless slaughter they perpetrated, point also to an entire ignorance of the putrefactive process. But probable as this seems, it is by no means a proven conclusion. 
And strangest of all is to see my wife in the end, to hold my wife’s hand again, and to think that I have counted her, and that she has counted me, among the dead.
I put out my hand and felt the meat chopper hanging to the wall. In a flash I was after him. I was fierce with fear. Before he was halfway across the kitchen I had overtaken him. With one last touch of humanity I turned the blade back and struck the curate with the meat chopper. curate went headlong forward and lay stretched on the ground. I stumbled over curate and stood panting. He lay still. 
For a few minutes there was a tussle. The bottle struck the floor and broke, and I desisted and rose. We stood panting and threatening each other. In the end I planted myself between him and the food, and told him of my determination to begin a discipline. the food in the pantry was divided into rations to last ten days. I would not let him eat any more that day. In the afternoon he made a feeble effort to get at the food. I had been dozing, but in an instant I was awake.
I went back quickly and quietly into the scullery. In the darkness I heard the curate drinking. I snatched in the darkness, and my fingers caught a bottle of wine. I and curate were fighting over the bottle of wine. For a few minutes there was a tussle. The bottle struck the floor and broke, and I desisted and rose. We stood panting and threatening each other. In the end I planted myself between him and the food, and told him of my determination to begin a discipline.
The tentacle was now some way, two yards or more, in the room, and twisting and turn- ing, with queer sudden movements, this way and that. For a while I stood fascinated by that slow, fitful advance. Then, with a faint, hoarse cry, I forced myself across the scullery. I trembled violently; I could scarcely stand upright. I opened the door of the coal cellar, I covered myself with coal to hide from martians, and I was standing there in the darkness staring at the doorway into the kitchen, and listening.
In the end the red weed succumbed almost as quickly as it had spread. A cankering disease, due, it is believed, to the action of certain bacteria, presently seized upon it. Now by the action of natural selection, all terrestrial plants have acquired a resisting power against bacterial diseases—they never succumb without a severe struggle, but the red weed was rotting like a thing already dead. The fronds became bleached, and then shrivelled and brittle. They broke off at the least touch, and the waters that had stimulated their early growth carried their last vestiges out to sea. 
My first act before I went into the pantry was to fasten the door between the kitchen and the scullery. But the pantry was empty; every scrap of food had gone. Apparently, the Martian had taken all the food on the previous day. At that discovery I despaired for the first time.
The scent of hay was in the air through the lush meadows beyond Pyrford, and the hedges on either side were sweet and gay with multitudes of dog-roses. The heavy firing that had broken out while we were driving down Maybury Hill ceased as abruptly as it began, leaving the evening very peaceful and still. We got to Leatherhead without misadventure about nine o’clock, and the horse had an hour’s rest while I took supper with my cousins and commended my wife to their care.I was worried about my wife.
Peeking through the hole in the house, i saw huge machines which were looking like spiders.They had many joints, arms and metal body.
Most probably the Martians needed blood, other than blood they did not need to sleep or eat.
The fellow thought he was a lunatic at large and made an unsuccessful attempt to shut him into the taproom. That sobered him a little; and when he saw Henderson, the London journalist, in his garden, he called over the palings and made himself understood.
About a couple of miles out lay an ironclad, very low in the water, almost, to my brother’s perception, like a water- logged ship. This ironclad warship was the THUNDER CHILD. It was the only warship in sight.
The sun is screwing off the place.The sudden shopper was a shift flash of staring at the steamer, and a huge sheet of half away the church the country across the law and face into the road, but a silent country and things about the flood in the sand pits.