What was watching humanity ?
To what does the narrator compare humans in the minds of the Martians ?
What does the narrator assert about Mars ?
What occurs on Mars to spark the invasion ?
Why does the narrator bring up the extinction of the Tasmanians ? 
What did astronomers notice about Mars in the years before the invasion ? 
What did these lights represent ? 
Who is Ogilvy ? 
What does Ogilvy do for the narrator ? 
What does Ogilvy think is causing these explosions on the surface of Mars ? 
What does Ogilvy think of the idea that it is aliens causing these explosions ?
In the first chapter , what is the narrator learning how to do ?
What does Ogilvy find when he looks for the meteor ? 
What does Henderson do after Ogilvy shows him the cylinder ? 
What does the narrator do when he reads Henderson ' s article ? 
What are the young boys doing to the cylinder ? 
What does the narrator notice about the cylinder ? 
What happened to the man who came to see the cylinder ? 
What do the Martians look like ? 
What do the Martians do to the men carrying the white flag ?
What does the narrator call the Martians ' main weapon ?
What is one theory about how the heat ray works ? 
Where does the narrator go after the attack on the commons ? 
What does the narrator compare himself ? 
How do people respond after the first Martian attack ?
Who first discovers the Martian cylinder ? 
Why did the Martians leave their home planet and invade Earth ? 
To combat the Men from Mars , which Regiment was dispatched to form a cordon around Horsell Common ?
Where did the first meteorite land ? 
How many days were the narrator and the curate trapped in a house on the edge of the pit ?
Who was momentarily turned to fire ? 
What came to the rescue of threatened shipping ? 
What seemed to be quiet silent and deserted ? 
How many cylinders were fired at the Earth from Mars ? 
What was the narrator singing when he was found wandering , weeping and raving by a house of kindly people in St John's Wood ?
How is the force of gravity on earth as compared to Mars ? 
When the storm brust upon us  ? 
What came out of the pit ? 
Martians were slain by what ? 
Name of the greatest authority on meteorites ?
What was the stated height of first appearance of meteorites ? 
Narrator struck the curate with ?
What were the men waving ?
Where was the narrator ' s younger brother ? 
Where did the narrator go after he parted from aetilleryman ?
The narrator saw a long tentacle reaching to what ? 
What do the Martians eat ? 
How many points of light were visible in empty space ? 
How many people lay under the starlight about he pit ?
Who is Marshall ?
What spread up the sides of the pit by fourth day ?
For how many days author remained with them after recovery ?
How long has it been since the soldier has eaten food ? 
How far is Leatherhead from Maybury Hill ?
What does the narrator begin to believe right after he leaves the ruined house ? 
Where do the members of goverment had gathered ? 
What does the narrator believes when the invasion ends ?
After eating where the narrator crept back ? 
What song was the narrator singing ? 
What was emerging from the cylinder ?
Who was well known astronomer ?
Where people must have seen the meteorite ?
Where does Ogilvy find the first cylinder ? 
What was the headline of the evening papers of london ?
The cylinder opens and the creature inside has ? 
what happens When the Heat Ray hits someone? 
What was the name of the women in white ?
Who is the well known astronomer that the narrator knows ? 
When they got to the leatherhead ? 
What did the narrator struck the curate with ? 
What was the boy in the artillery ? 
What do the Martians eat to stay alive ? 
Which warship takes out two Martians ? 
What were the Martians slain by ? 
Where was the narrator ' s brother when the martians fell ? 
Where did the meteorite lay ? 
What happened to the people waving the White Flag at the first cylinder ? 
When did the Martian invasion begin ? 
What color smoke came out of pit ? 
What object descended on the horsell commom ? 
What does Ogilvy think is inside ? 
Who is Henderson ? 
The narrator describes the martian to be about the size of what  ?
What is the headline in the London newspaper the day after the object is found ?
What flickered by and vanished ?
What were the men waving to Martians? 
What does the narrator tell his wife about the martians to reassure her ?
Why does Ogilvy think the martians cannot establish themselves on Earth ?
About how many soldiers of Cardigan regiment started from Aldershot ? 
Where do the narrator wife cousin live ?
After the narrator gets his wife to safety. How does the narrator felt about his return ? 
How many shots were fired from Mars ? 
What was narrator' s younger brother ? 
What was rising out of cylinder ?
What did the narrator saw going into the Kitchen ? 
What is all over the place after the Narrator finally emerges ?
What nearly choked the bridge roadway ?  
According to narrator who has slain them in the night ? 
Martians were finally slain by whom ?
What was done to the bodies of Martians after war ?
Who does the Narrator finally see in the end ? 
The narrator finally loses his patience with the curate and struck him with ?
Narrator divided the pantry into rations to last for ?
The curate and the narrator fought over ?
What did the narrator cover himself with to hide from the Martians ?
what scummed as quickly as it spread ?
Who has taken all the food ?
The author was very worried about ?
Peeking through a hole in the house , the author and the coward saw a new machine that looked like a ?
The Martians did not need to sleep or eat But they did need ?
What is the name of the London journalist ?
What is Thunder Child ?
what is screwing of the place ?
Who struck the commom ?