What was watching humanity ?
To what does the narrator compare humans in the minds of the Martians ?
What does the narrator assert about Mars ?
What occurs on Mars to spark the invasion ?
Why does the narrator bring up the extinction of the Tasmanians ?
What did astronomers notice about Mars in the years before the invasion ?
What did these lights represent ?
Who is Ogilvy ?
What does Ogilvy do for the narrator ?
What does Ogilvy think is causing these explosions on the surface of Mars ?
What does Ogilvy think of the idea that it is aliens causing these explosions ?
In the first chapter , what is the narrator learning how to do ?
What does Ogilbvy find when he looks for the meteor ?
What does Henderson do after Ogilvy shows him the cylinder ?
What does the narrator do when he reads Henderson ' s article ?
What are the young boys doing to the cylinder ?
What does the narrator notice about the cylinder ?
What happened to the shop assistant who came to see the cylinder ?
What do the Martians look like ?
What do the Martians do to the delegation carrying the white flag ?
What does the narrator call the Martians ' main weapon ?
What is one theory about how the heat ray works ?
Where does the narrator go after the attack on the commons ?
What does the narrator compare himself to at the end of Chapter 7 ?
How do people respond after the first peace expedition to the Martians is destroyed ?
Who first discovers the Martian canister ?
Why did the Martians leave their home planet and invade Earth ?
To combat the Men from Mars , which Regiment was dispatched to form a cordon around Horsell Common ?
Where did the first Martian canister land ?
How many days were the narrator and the curate trapped in a house on the edge of the pit ?
Who was the first victim of the Martian attack ?
Where did people jump into the river to escape the Martian heat ray ?
What was the name of the ship that destroyed a tripod in a valiant but futile attempt to save fleeing refugees ?
Where did the battle take place between Thunder Child and the tripods ?
According to the book , how many canisters were fired at the Earth by the Martians ?
What was the narrator singing when he was found " wandering , weeping and raving " by a house of kindly people in St John's Wood ?
Where was the site of the Martians last encampment ?
Why do the local papers say that the Martians will never be able take over Earth ?
What was the great light seen six years prior to the beginning of the story ?
What does the Black Smoke do to people it envelopes ?
How does the narrator escape the Martian heat rays ?
What finally ends up killing the Martians ?
What do Martians do with people they capture ?
What do people first believe the Martian ship to be ?
How does the curate die ?
What happens to the men who approach the Martians with a white flag ?
Where does the narrator ' s brother live ?
Where does the narrator find food after he meets with the soldier for the second time ?
As he watches from the ruined house , the narrator sees a Martian pick up a person from where ?
What do the Martians eat ?
How many Martians initially attack nearby the night after the narrator ' s brother is introduced ?
How many houses around the pit catch fire on Friday night ?
How did the heat ray operate ?
Who is Marshall ?
How is the soldier separated from his unit ?
How does the Martian repair his tripod during the Martian attack of Surrey ?
What do the Martians bring with them in the cylinders ?
What color is the weed that seems to be everywhere around the ruined house ?
How long does the narrator stay in the house after he is found wandering the streets ?
How long has it been since the soldier has eaten when he first teams up with the narrator ?
Why is the narrator eager to get back to Woking after taking his wife to the inn ?
What does the narrator begin to believe right after he leaves the ruined house ?
What happens to the narrator when he reaches the other bank in the small boat ?
Where do the government officials go when the Martians attack London ?
What does the narrator think that the government should do when the invasion ends ?
A soldier tells the narrator that when a man waved a flag on a long pole at the Martians, the Martians responded by ?
Why do the narrator and the curate decide to leave the riverbank ?
What is the name of the song that the narrator invents ?
How far does the narrator have to drive his wife in the cart ?
What happens to the house near Kew when the narrator and curate take refuge there ?
The narrator meets Ogilvy who takes him to the ... to see the meteor shower ?
People first notice ?
Where does Ogilvy find the first cylinder ?
Ogilvy finds the cylinder is too hot to touch. Why did he want to touch it ?
Soon after , the newspapers run with the story of the cylinder , what was the headline ?
The cylinder opens and the creature inside has ?
There is a delegation of humans who come close to the cylinder, why ?
what happens When the Heat Ray hits someone?
When the narrator realises the Martians are killing people with this Heat Ray he ?
Who does the narrator's brother help ?
Who is the well known astronomer that the narrator knows ?
Where does the narrator take his wife to be safe ?
How does the narrator neutralize the curate ?
Who seeks refuge at the narrator ' s house ?
What do the Martians eat to stay alive ?
What warship takes out 2 Martians ?
How does one escape the Black Smoke ?
What ends up killing the Martians ?
Where in England did the narrator ' s brother live?
Where do the cylinders fall ?
What happened to the people waving the White Flag at the first cylinder ?
In what year did the Martian invasion begin ?
What color are the gas jets coming from Mars ?
What object lands in the center of the commons just outside of town ?
What does Ogilvy think is inside ?
Who is Henderson ?
Who falls into the pit ?
The narrator describes the martian to be about the same size as what animal ?
Why does the narrator think the martians have come to Earth ?
What is the headline in the London newspaper the day after the object is found ?
What is a deputation ?
What does the group approaching the martian try to use to signal it?
What can survive the alien heat - ray ?
What happens to the narrator as he is running home ?
What does the narrator tell his wife about the martians to reassure her ?
Why does Ogilvy think the martians cannot establish themselves on Earth ?
About how many soldiers does the military send to respond to the first crash ?
What weapon do the martians initially use when they emerge from the cylinder ?
For which reason did many people not fear the invaders when they first landed ?
Where does the narrator leave his wife ?
After the narrator gets his wife to safety , he heads back to Maybury . How does the narrator feel about his return ?
What weapons do the Martians use to attack the citizens on Earth ?
How many cylinders have invaded Earth by the end of chapter 5 ?
How are the Curate and the Narrator trapped in a house ?
What are the Martians now doing that makes the Narrator think they might want to preserve humans for another reason ?
Which is the best description of how the Martians look ?
Why does the Narrator finally hit the Curator over the head ?
What happens to the Curate ?
What is all over the place after the Narrator finally emerges ?
Who does the Narrator finally run into whom he has not seen in a while ?
When on Putney Hill , what state of mind is the man in that the Narrator stays with ?
What is the strange sound the Narrator hears from the Martians near the end ?
What finally kills off the Martians ?
Who does the Narrator finally see in the end ?
How long did this invasion last from start to end for the Martians ?
The clergyman and the narrator could not take their eyes off the ?
What is slowly happening to the clergyman while they are imprisoned in the house ?
The clergyman and the narrator fought over ?
The narrator finally loses his patience with the clergyman and attacks him with ?
What did the narrator cover himself with to hide from the Martians ?
What was left after Martians were gone ?
How many days were the narrator and the clergyman in the house ?
How did the authoe tried to escape ?
Why did the author give up digging ?
What do you think the Martians were going to do with is man ?
What did the author find when the author left the coal room and went into the kitchen ?
The author and his cowardly friend were in an empty house.  They were hiding from ?
The author was very worried about ?
When the black smoke and disappeared , the author left the house ?
The cowardly an did not want to leave the house .  He finally left with the author because ?  
Peeking through a hole in the house , the author and the coward saw a new machine that looked like a ?
The Martians did not need to sleep or eat But they did need ?
What is the name of the London journalist , who accepts Ogilvy report ?
What is Thunder Child ?
In which city do the residents jump into the river to escape the heat ray ?
